# Welcome to DeezerToSpotify!

**DeezerToSpotify is a proof-of-concept (POC) that originated from a need to compare and merge my Deezer playlist to a similar one on Spotify.**

Although there are some services that can do this work for you, I wanted to experiment doing this myself.

**spotify_get.py** and **file_compare.py** used the Spotipy module by Plamere available at https://github.com/plamere/spotipy
Thanks to Spotipy, I did not have to deal with complex issues to accomplish some operations.

_DeezerToSpotify is divided into three console applications. As you see, it uses text files to identify the updates. In the third step, the two files will be compared and the user will be able to visualize  the results. The user will decide if the changes are going to be ported to the Spotify playlist._

**deezer_get.py**

This script will retrieve your user data from Deezer, if your profile is public.
If you have a private profile, I'd highly recommend you set your profile to public. Basically, this reduces the complexity of this script by not including OAuth/Token Exchange procedures.
It generates a text file.

**spotify_get.py**

This is the intermediate step, in which I grab a copy of a specific playlist on Spotify in order to compare it with the file generated by deezer_get.py. This script requires authentication.
It generates another text file.

**file_compare.py**

In this file I am comparing both txt files to see the updates in a specific list.
In this case, I want to see how much the deezer playlist has changed and apply those changes to my Spotify playlist.
It has a simple comparison algorithm to identify changes.

## How to use it?

Using these scripts can be a bit complicated. I tried to make them as user-friendly as I could.
I must say that you need to know how to run a script using Python and how to install a pip module.

1. Set to public the visibility of your Deezer profile and locate your User ID.
2. The first step consists of generating a Client ID and Client Secret specific to your account. https://developer.spotify.com/
3. Whitelist the Redirect URI http://localhost:8888/callback/ in your application page (Spotify for Developers website).
4. You need Python 3.9 or higher to run the scripts.
5. The scripts **spotify_get.py** and **file_compare.py** depend on the Spotipy module to work.
Get it at: https://pypi.org/project/spotipy/
6. Follow the prompts.

*This work is under MIT License.
Feel free to improve it or open an issue on GitHub if you have any questions or feedback.
You may notice that there is a lot of room for improvement. As I mentioned, DeezerToSpotify is a proof-of-concept.
These scripts come with no warranty.*

**Thank you all!**
